**Charles Liu**
Astronomy 138 - Dr. Matthew Duez
April 11th, 2025

___

**1. Part 1: using the list**

1. In your favorite web browser, go to the Exoplanets Encyclopedia home page. Select *The catalog*. This page shows a sortable list of exoplanets. Select *Status* and make sure only the *Confirmed* box is checked. You sort the list itself by clicking on the column name. The first click sorts in ascending order, the second click sorts on descending order. Find the exoplanet with the most recent discovery date. What is its name? What method was used to discover it (give the full name of the method, not an acronym or other short form)?

Name: TOI-6478 b
Method: Primary Transit

**2. Part 2: using the scatter plot**

1. Return to the home page. Select *The plots*. Choose *X axis - Year of discovery* and uncheck *log scale* (i.e., turn off log scale). Choose *Y axis - Planetary mass* and leave *log scale* checked (i.e., leave it turned on). We define “detection threshold” as the smallest signal able to be measured. What was the name and mass of the smallest mass exoplanet discovered in the year 2000 (mouse over the data point to bring up the information)? By what detection method was it discovered (click on the data point to bring up the information)?

Name: mu Ara b
Mass: ${8.5(\pm 4.5) M_j}$
Method: Radial Velocity

2. What was the name and mass of the smallest mass exoplanet discovered in 2020? By what method was it discovered?

Name: WD 1856+534 Ab
Mass: 
Method: Primary Transit


3. Between the years 2000 and 2020, has our detection threshold for mass improved, degraded, or remained the same? Justify your response using information from the plot.

It has improved,

**3. Part 3: using the histogram plot**

1. Return to the home page. Select **Diagrams - Histogram plot**. Choose **X axis - Calculated temperature**. How many exoplanets in total are in the histogram (scroll to the bottom of the page)?
2. Adjust the **X axis Min** to 273 and **X axis Max** to 373 to discover how many planets have a surface temperature that would support water in liquid state. Note that the temperature axis is in units of kelvin. How many exoplanets? These are called “habitable exoplanets”, although they may not be truly habitable for a variety of reasons.
3. What is the name of one of these habitable exoplanets? Use the list view (Part 1) or clicking from a scatter plot (Part 2) to find an answer.

**4. Part 4: open-ended investigation**

1. Invent a question that can be answered using the Extrasolar Planets Encyclopedia.
2. Describe the procedure you would use to collect the data needed to respond to the question.
3. Respond to the question.