---
tags: Linear_Algebra, MATH_220, Mathematics
---

The *Invertible Matrix Theorem* (IMT) connects all the notions that we've learn by far.

### Theorem 1. (Invertible Matrix Theorem)

Let ${A}$ be an ${n \times n}$ matrix. The following statements are equivalent.
1. ${A}$ is invertible (i.e., ${AB = BA = I}$ for some ${n \times n}$ matrix ${B}$ )
2. ${A}$ is row equivalent to ${I}$ (i.e., the REF of ${A}$ is ${I}$ )
3. ${A}$ has ${n}$ pivots
4. ${A}$ has a pivot in every row
5. ${A}$ has a pivot in every column
6. ${Ax= 0}$ has only the trivial solution (i.e., the only solution to ${Ax = 0}$ is the zero solution x = 0)
7. Columns of ${A}$ are linearly independent.
8. Columns of ${A}$ span ${\mathbb{R}^n}$ 
9. The linear transformation ${T(x) = Ax}$ is one-to-one.
10. The linear transformation ${T(x) = Ax}$ is ONTO.
11. ${Ax = b}$ has a unique solution for every ${b \in \mathbb{R}^n}$
12. There exists ${n \times n}$ matrix ${B}$ such that ${AB = I}$
13. There exists ${n \times n}$ matrix ${B}$ such that ${BA = I}$
14. ${A^T}$ is invertible

In general, the Gaussian-Jordan method can always be used to determine the invertibility a matrix and find its inverse when it exists

However, if we only wants to determine if a matrix is invertible, we can do the following.

>[!abstract] **Case 1:**
>If ${A = \begin{bmatrix} a & b \\ c & d \end{bmatrix}}$ is a ${2 \times 2}$ matrix check ${\det(A) = ad -bc}$ $$$$ **(a)** if ${\det(A) \neq 0}$, then A is non-invertible $$$$ **(b)** if ${\det(A) = 0}$, then ${A}$ is invertible

>[!abstract] **Case 2:**
> If A is an ${n \times n}$ matrix with ${n \geq 3}$, we need to find the number of pivots that ${A}$ has.

#### Tags

>[!quote] Tags:
> [[Linear Algebra Information|Linear Algebra Information]]
