---
tags: Real_Analysis Mathematics
date: 5/12/2025
---

___

>**Definition.** Two sets ${A}$ and ${B}$ are called *equinumerous*, denoted by ${A \sim B}$, if there exists a one-to-one, onto function
$${F : A \to B}$$

**Exercise:** "${\sim}$" is an equivalence relation.

Equivalence relation satisfies reflexivity, transitivity, symmetry.

1. Reflexivity
${A \sim A}$

2. Transitivity
${A \sim B}$, ${B \sim C}$, ${\implies A \sim C}$.

3. Symmetry
${A \sim B \implies B \sim A}$

___

>**Definition.** A set ${S}$ is finite of *cardinality* ${n}$ if ${S \sim \{1,2,...,n\}}$.
>Denoted by ${|S| = n}$

**Example**
${\Bbb{Z}^+ := \{n \in \Bbb{Z} \,|\, n > 0\} = \{1,2,3,...\}}$
${S := \{ 2^n \,|\, n \in \Bbb{Z}+\} = \{2,2^2, 2^3,...\}}$

Clearly ${S \subsetneq \Bbb{Z}^+}$ and ${S \sim \Bbb{Z}^+}$
${F : \Bbb{Z}^+ \longrightarrow S, F(x) = 2^x}$

___

>**Definition.** A set ${S}$ is called *countable infinite* if 
>$${S \sim \{1,2,3,...\} = \Bbb{N}}$$

>**Definition.** A set ${S}$ is countable if it is either finite or countable infinite.
>A set which is *NOT* countable is called uncountable.

*Remark:* A set ${S}$ is countable if and only if there exists a one-to-one function ${F: S \longrightarrow \Bbb{N}}$
Thus every subset of a countable set is countable.

>**Theorem.** ${\Bbb{R}}$ is uncountable
>
>*Proof:* It suffices to show ${(0,1) \subseteq \Bbb{R}}$ is uncountable. 
>Suppose ${(0,1)}$ is countable.
>Then there exists ${1-1}$, onto ${F: \Bbb{N} \longrightarrow (0,1)}$
>
>Let ${S_n = F(n)}$. Then ${(0,1) = \{S_n\}_{n=1}^\infty}$
>We can write each ${S_n}$ as an infinite decimal:
>$${S_n = u_{n1}u_{n2}u_{n3}...,\;0\le u_{ni}\le 9}$$
>Consider ${y = 0.v_1v_2v_3...}$
>
>where ${v_n = \begin{cases} 1 & \text{if } u_{nn} \neq 1 \\ 2 & \text{if } u_{nn} = 1\end{cases}}$
>
Then ${y \in (0,1)}$ but ${y \neq S_n \; n = 1,2,...}$ a contradiction.

>**Theorem.** ${\Bbb{N} \times \Bbb{N}}$ is countable.
*Proof:* Define ${F: \Bbb{N} \times \Bbb{N} \longrightarrow \Bbb{N}}$ by 
$${F(m,n) = 2^m \cdot 3^n}$$
Then ${F}$ is one-to-one (by the uniqueness prime factorization of integers)

>**Corollary:** ${\Bbb{Q}}$ is compatible

>**Corollary:** A finite product of countable sets is countable.

>**Definition.** Let ${\wedge}$ be an index set.
$${\bigcup\limits_{i\in\wedge}A_i = \{x \,|\, x\in A_i \text{for some } i \in A\}}$$
$${\bigcup\limits_{i\in\wedge}A_i = \{x \,|\, x\in A_i \text{for some } i \in A\}}$$

>**Theorem.** A countable union of countable sets is countable.
*Proof:* Suppose ${A_n = \{a_{n1}, a_{n2}, ...\}}$ is countable for ${n=1,2,...}$
Assume all ${A_n}$ are disjoint.
Define ${F: \bigcup\limits_{n=1}^\infty A_n \longrightarrow \Bbb{N} \times \Bbb{N}}$ by
${F(a_{mm}) = (n,m)}$
Then ${F}$ is one-to-one and thus ${\bigcup\limits_{n=1}^\infty A_n}$ is countable.
In general, let ${B_n = A_n \setminus \bigcup\limits_{k=1}^\infty A_k, n > 1}$
Then ${B_n}$ are disjoint and ${\bigcup\limits_{n=1}^\infty B_n = \bigcup\limits_{n=1}^\infty A_n}$.

___