Meeting Summary:
Qualifiers are crucial for any *precise* definition

Standard encryption scheme has two communicating parties, Alice and Bob, and an adversary Eve.

A perfectly secure channel is one where Eve cannot gain any information about what's being transferred between Alice and Bob.

Three main and equivalent definitions of *perfectly secrecy*
- Advantage of ${PrivK^{eav}}$ = 0
- ${C(m_0) = C(m_1)}$ (identical probability distributions)
	- ${Enc_{m_0}(K) = Enc_{m_1}(K)}$
	- ${K}$ denotes random variable in keyspace
	- seems like an easier to use definition
- ${Pr[M=m|C=c] = Pr[M=m]}$



Recall advantage is defined as ${2 \cdot |Pr[b=b'] -0.5|}$
${2}$ is used to normalize the value to ${0,1}$
absolute value is used to detect irregularity on either side (too good or too bad at the experiment)

### **One Time Pad Modification Consideration**

>First modification
${Gen(1^\lambda}$): ${k \leftarrow \Bbb{Z}_p}$
${Enc_k(m) \to m + k}$
${Dec_k(c) \to c - k}$
>
*Perfectly Secure!*
${Pr[M=m|C=c] = \frac{1}{p} = Pr[M=m]}$


>${Gen(1^\lambda}$): ${k \leftarrow \Bbb{Z}_p^*}$
${Enc_k(m) \to (m \times k) \text { mod }p}$
${Dec_k(c) \to c / k = (c \times k^{-1}) \text{ mod }p}$
>
*Perfectly Secure only if p is prime*
>If ${p}$ is prime, then ${\Bbb{Z}_p^*}$ is a multiplicative group. Associativity and Identity are trivial, every element has a multiplicative inverse because it is coprime with ${p}$. 
>${gcd(p,k) = 1}$, so ${c_1p + c_2k = 1}$, ${c_1,c_2 \in \Bbb{Z}_p^*}$.
>We can find that ${(c_1p + c_2k) \text{ mod }p \equiv 1 \text{ mod }p}$, so ${c_2k \text{ mod }p = 1 \text{ mod }p}$
>So ${c_2}$ must have multiplicative inverse.
>
>Consider the encryption function ${Enc_k(m) \to (m \times k) \text{ mod } p}$. It maps from ${\Bbb{Z}_p \to \Bbb{Z}_p}$.
>It is bijective.
>Let ${a,b \in M}$. Take ${ka = kb \in \Bbb{Z}_p}$. Since ${k^{-1}}$ exists, ${a = b}$, so encryption is one-to-one.
>Take arbitrary ${a \in \Bbb{Z}_p}$. ${k^{-1}a \in \Bbb{Z}_p}$ by group properties, so encryption is onto.
>Thus, encryption is a permutation.
> 
> So ${Pr[M=m|C=c] = \frac{1}{p-1} = Pr[M=m]}$, and the scheme is perfectly secure when ${p}$ is prime.
> 
> When ${p}$ isn't prime, not every element in ${\Bbb{Z} \text{ mod }p}$ is coprime with ${p}$, so the encryption map isn't necessarily bijective. This is problematic as this means ${C(m_0) \neq C(m_1)}$ for certain ${m_0, m_1 \in M}$.