In software development, the design phase is critical for creating systems that are maintainable, scalable, and efficient.

A well-designed system must address several core elements like *modularity*, *cohesion*, and *coupling*, it should also consider modern trends and best practices.


### **Software Design**

- Design activities classified in two stages
	- Preliminary (high level design)
	- Detailed design
- Meaning and scope of the two stages
	- Vary considerably from one methodology to another

>*Question:*
>What is a good/bad software design?

### **Good Software Design**

- Easy to understand
- High modularity: cleanly decomposed set of modules
- Neat Structure: tree like structure

### **Cohesion**

A measure of functional strength of a module. It must complete its whole task completely without depending too much on other modules.

bro messed up on the earlier steps

### **Types of Cohesion**

Lowest to highest.

*Coincidental*: Weakest type of cohesion, where elements are in a module and grouped together arbitrarily for no logical reason, making them unrelated.

*Logical*: Logical cohesion occurs when a module or function performs a set of related but distinct tasks, and the task that gets executed depends on some control variable or flag.

*Temporal*: Grouped together based on time frame which they are executed (same time grouped together)


*Procedural*: Each functions perform a different task and are logically distinct, but are executed in a specific order (based on steps).

*Communication*: A module has communicational cohesion when its functions operate on the same data or work towards producing the same output

*Sequential*: When the output from one function becomes the input to the next (based on input output).

*Functional*: All of its elements contribute to performing a single, well-defined task.