## **Bridges of Könisberg**

**Example 6.** The diagram shows the nine rooms and the second floor of a large house with doorways between various rooms.

a) Is it possible to start in some room and go for a walk so that each doorway is passed through exactly once?
b) If it is possible, draw or describe such a walk. If it is not possible, prove why this is not possible.

___

**Theorem.** A nontrivial connected graph ${G}$ has an Eulerian Circuit if and only if every vertex of ${G}$ has even degree.

*Proof.*
*(1)* If ${G}$ has an Eulerian circuit, then every vertex of ${G}$ has even degrees.

WTS the degree of every vertex is even.
So call ${C}$ our Eulerian circuit.
${C}$ can repeat vertices, but not edges. Call the starting (& thus ending) vertex of ${C}$ ${u}$.
Let ${v \in V(G)}$ s.t. ${v \neq u}$.
Since ${c}$ does not begin or end at ${v}$,  every time ${v}$ is encountered on ${C}$,  two edges are used 
(one to enter ${v}$ & one to leave ${v}$). Thus ${v}$ has even degree.
Now consider ${u}$. We'll use one edge to leave ${u}$ when we start at ${C}$, and we'll use one edge to arrive at ${u}$ when we end at ${C}$ If ${u}$ is encountered elsewhere, two edges will be used: one to enter ${u}$ and one to leave ${u}$.
Thus, every vertex in ${G}$ has even degree.

*(2)* If every vertex in ${G}$ has even degree, then ${G}$ has an Eulerian circuit
Assume every vertex in ${G}$ has even degree. WTS that ${G}$ has an Eulerian circuit.

Among all trails in ${G}$, let ${T}$ be one of maximum length (there may be more than one).
Let ${u}$ be the starting vertex of ${T}$ and let ${v}$ be the ending vertex of ${T}$.

BWOC assume ${u \neq v}$
Each time ${v}$ is encountered, we will use ${2}$ edges: one to enter ${v}$ and one to leave ${v}$.

So the degree of ${v}$ is ${2k + 1}$, where ${k}$ is the number of times ${v}$ is encountered before the final time.

So there must be another edge leading from the final time we encounter ${v}$ to a vertex ${w}$ that is not on ${T}$: edge ${vw}$.

But then ${T}$ can be extended to ${W}$, contradicting our assumption that ${T}$ has maximum length.
Thus ${u = v}$ and ${T}$ is ${u-u}$ trail,
i.e. ${T}$ is a circuit.

${H}$ is left to show that every edge in ${G}$ is on ${T}$.

BWOC, assume ${T}$ does not contain all the edges of ${G}$.
Since ${G}$ is connected, some edge ${e = xy}$ not on ${T}$ is incident with a vertex of ${x}$ that is on ${T}$.

Let ${H = G-E(T)}$. (${H}$ has all the vertices that ${G}$ has - it's just missing the edges on ${T}$)

Every vertex on ${T}$ is incident with an even number of edges on ${T}$.

Since every vertex of ${G}$ has even degree, every vertex of ${H}$ has even degree.
(even - even = even)

${H}$ may be disconnected. I know that ${H}$ has at least one non-trivial component.
Call this component ${H_1}$. ${H_1}$ contains the vertices ${x}$ and ${y}$ and the edge ${e = xy}$

So every vertex in ${H_1}$ also has even degree.
So we can find a trail of maximum length starting at ${x}$.

By the argument we made above, this trail will also be a circuit; it will start and end at ${x}$.

For a circuit, you can start and end at any vertex on the trail and still construct a circuit.

Call this ${x-x}$ circuit in ${H_1\;\;C}$.

If we attach circuit ${C}$ to circuit ${T}$ (at the vertex ${x}$), this is a longer circuit than ${T}$ which contradicts our assumption that ${T}$ is a longest trail in our graph.

So our assumption that ${T}$ does not contain all the edges of ${G}$ must be false. Thus ${T}$ is an Eulerian Circuit.

___

