**Charles Liu**
Elementary Modern Algebra - Dr. Ben Clark
February 6th 2025

___

1. Find all the generators of ${(\mathbb{Z}, +)}$ (integers under regular addition). Let ${a}$ be a group element in an arbitrary group, that has infinite order. Find all the generators of ${\langle a \rangle}$.

The generators of ${(\mathbb{Z},+)}$ are ${1}$ and ${-1}$

If ${a}$ has infinite order, ${\langle a \rangle}$ is isomorphic to ${(\mathbb{Z},+)}$ so every element in the arbitrary group is a generator of ${\langle a \rangle}$.

___

2. Solve the following equations for ${x}$ in the given cyclic group. If multiple solutions exist, be sure to state all solutions.  

*(a)* ${x + 5 = 7}$, where ${G = \mathbb{Z}_{11}}$ 

Since ${2 + 5 = 7}$ and ${2 \in \mathbb{Z}_11}$, ${x = 2}$

*(b)* ${2x + 4 = 7}$, where ${G = \mathbb{Z}_8}$

We can solve the equivalent equation ${2x = 3}$. Since the coefficient of ${x}$ in the equation is ${2}$, it confines the left-hand side to even numbers although the right-hand side is odd, so ${x}$ has no solution.
___

3. Prove that an infinite group must have an infinite number of subgroups.  

**Theorem.** There is an infinite number of subgroups in an infinite group.
*Proof.* 
Let ${G}$ be an infinite group. 
If ${x\in G}$, ${\langle x \rangle \in G}$
*Case 1:* An element in ${G}$ has infinite order, ${|x| = \infty}$
Since ${\langle x \rangle \in G}$, if ${|x| = \infty}$,  ${\{e,x^1,x^2,x^3,...\} \in G}$.
Since ${\{e,x,...x^n\} \le G}$  for ${n \in \mathbb{N}}$, and ${\langle x^{i} \rangle}$ for ${i \ge 1, i \in \mathbb{N}}$ is a cyclic generator for a subgroup of ${G}$, there is an infinite number of subgroups.
*Case 2:* All elements in ${G}$ have finite order; ${|x| = n}$ where ${n \ge 0}$ and ${n}$ is finite.
Since ${\langle x \rangle \le G}$, ${\{e, x^1,x^2,...x^n\} \le G}$. As ${G}$ has infinite elements, we can find another element ${y \in G}$ where ${y \notin \langle x \rangle}$ and the order of ${y}$ is finite. We can construct a cycle with ${y}$ as a generator, where ${\langle y \rangle \in G}$. Similarly, since ${G}$ has infinite elements, we can find ${z \in G}$ where ${z\notin \langle x \rangle}$ and ${z \notin \langle y \rangle}$. Since ${z \in G}$, ${\langle z \rangle \le G}$ and the order of ${z}$ is finite. Repeating this logic indefinitely, we can generate infinite subgroups with each new generator in ${G}$, but not in previous subgroups.

___

4. Suppose ${G}$ is a group with more than ${1}$ element. If the only subgroups of ${G}$ are ${G}$ and ${\{e\}}$, prove that ${G}$ is cyclic and has prime order.  

**Theorem.** For a group ${G}$ with more than ${1}$ element and subgroups of only ${G}$ and ${\{e\}}$, ${G}$ must be cyclic and have prime order.
*Proof.*
As ${G}$ has more than one element, we can find an element ${a \in G}$ where ${a \neq e}$. The cyclic subgroup generated by ${a}$, ${\langle a \rangle \in G}$.
We know that ${\langle a \rangle}$ is a subgroup in ${G}$. Since the only subgroups of ${G}$ are ${G}$ and ${\{e\}}$, ${\langle a \rangle}$ must be ${\{e\}}$ or ${G}$. Since ${a \neq e}$, ${\langle a \rangle \neq \{e\}}$. As such, ${\langle a \rangle = G}$ and ${G}$ is cyclic.

Let the order of the group ${G}$ be ${n}$. BWOC, assume ${n}$ is not prime. This means it can be written as ${n=xy}$ where ${x,y}$ are integers and ${x,y < n}$. We can find that
$${a^n = a^{xy} = a^xa^y = e}$$
This shows that ${a^x = a^{y} = e}$, meaning the order of ${a}$ is either ${x \neq n}$ or ${y \neq n}$, a contradiction as the order of ${a = n}$.
Thus, the order of ${G}$ must be prime.

___

5. Prove that no group can have exactly two elements of order ${2}$.  

**Theorem.** No group can have exactly two elements of order ${2}$
*Proof.*
BWOC, suppose that for a group ${G}$, there are exactly two elements ${a,b \in G}$ of order ${2}$ where ${a \neq b}$. This means ${a^2 = b^2 = e}$.
By properties of groups, this means ${ab \in G}$.
*Case 1:* ${ab = e}$
If ${ab = e}$, this means that ${a = b^{-1}}$. As ${b}$ has order ${2}$, ${b^{-1} = b}$. Substituting into ${a = b^{-1}}$, we get that ${a=b}$, a contradiction.
*Case 2:* ${ab \neq e}$
*Case 2a:* ${ab = ba}$
Since ${a^2 = b^2 = e}$, if ${ab}$ is commutative, then ${a^2b^2 = aabb = a(ab)b = abab = (ab)^2 = e}$. This means ${ab}$ has order ${2}$.
*Case 2b:* ${ab \neq ba}$.
Take ${aba \in G}$. We can solve that ${(aba)(aba) = ab(a^2)ba = ab^2a = a^2 = e}$.
We can find that ${aba \neq e}$, ${aba \neq a}$, and ${aba \neq b}$, and is thus a third element of order ${2}$.
BWOC, assume that ${aba = e}$. This means that ${ab = a^{-1} = a}$ which means that ${b = e}$, a contradiction.
BWOC, assume that ${aba = a}$. This means that ${ba = e}$ and ${a=b^{-1} = b}$, a contradiction.
BWOC, assume that ${aba = b}$. This means that ${ab =ba^{-1} = ba}$ which means ${ab}$ is commutative, a contradiction.
Thus, ${aba}$ is a third element of order ${2}$ which is not ${a,b}$ or ${e}$, and the statement that there is exactly two elements of order ${2}$ in ${G}$ is a contradiction.

___

6. Prove that ${S_n}$ is non-commutative for ${n \ge 3}$.

**Theorem.** ${S_n}$ for ${n \ge 3}$ is non-commutative.
*Proof.*
Let ${a = (12) \in S_n}$ and ${b = (23) \in S_n}$. We can solve that ${ab = (123) \neq ba = (132)}$, which means ${ab}$, and thus ${S_n}$, is not commutative.