---
tags: MATH_320 Elementary_Modern_Algebra Special_Types_Of_Groups Mathematics
---

### **2.1 Cyclic Groups**

**Definition 2.1.1** (Cyclic group). A group ${G}$ is called *cyclic* if there is an element ${a}$ in ${G}$ such that ${G = \{ a^n | n \in \mathbb{Z}\}}$

**Theorem 2.1.3** Let ${G}$ be a group, and let ${a}$ belong to ${G}$, then we have the following two statements based on the order of ${a}$.
1. If ${a}$ has infinite order, then ${a^i = a^j}$ if and only if ${i = j}$
2. If ${a}$ has a finite order ${n}$, then ${\langle e, a, a^2, ... , a^{n-1}\rangle}$ and ${a^{i} = a^{j}}$ if and only if ${n}$ divides ${i - j}$.

*Proof.* If ${a}$ has infinite order, note that ${a^i = a^j}$ implies, ${a^{i-j} = e}$ which gives that ${i = j}$. Doing the same in reverse gives the result.
Assume ${|a| = n}$. Note first that the elements ${e, a, ..., a^{n-1}}$ are in ${\langle a \rangle}$

**Corollary 2.1.4.** For any group element ${a}$, ${|a|= |\langle a \rangle|}$.  
**Corollary 2.1.5.** Let G be a group and let a be an element of order n in G. If  ${ak = e}$, then n divides k.  
**Corollary 2.1.6.** If a and b belong to a finite group and ab = ba, then |ab|  
divides |a||b|.  
**Theorem 2.1.7.** Let a be an element of order n in a group and let k be a  
positive integer. Then ⟨ak⟩ = ⟨agcd(n,k)⟩ and |ak| = n/ gcd(n, k).  
Corollary 2.1.8. If a finite cyclic group, the order of an element divides the  
order of the group.  
Corollary 2.1.9. Let |a| = n. Then ⟨ai⟩ = ⟨aj ⟩ if and only if gcd(n, i) =  
gcd(n, j), and |ai| = |aj | if and only if gcd(n, i) = gcd(n, j).  
Corollary 2.1.10. An integer k in Zn is a generator of Zn if and only if  
gcd(n, k) = 1.  
Theorem 2.1.11 (Fundamental theorem of cyclic groups). Let G be a cyclic  
group, then the following three statements hold.  
1. Every subgroup of G is cyclic.  
2. If |G| = n, then the order of any subgroup divides n.  
3. If |G| = n, the for any k|n, the subgroup ⟨an/k⟩ is the unique subgroup of  
order k.

### Exercises

1. Find all generators of ${\mathbb{Z}^6, \mathbb{Z}^8,}$ and ${\mathbb{Z}^{20}}$

${\langle 1 \rangle = \langle 5 \rangle = \mathbb{Z}^6}$
${\langle 1 \rangle = \langle 3 \rangle = \langle 5 \rangle = \langle 7 \rangle}$
${\langle 1 \rangle = \langle 3 \rangle = \langle 7 \rangle = \langle 9 \rangle = \langle 11 \rangle = \langle 13 \rangle = \langle 17 \rangle = \langle 19 \rangle}$

2. List all the elements of order ${8}$ in ${\mathbb{Z}_{8000000}}$. How do we know your list is complete?

${\{ 1000000 , 3000000, 5000000, 7000000\}}$

3. Let ${G}$ be a group and let ${a}$ be an element of ${G}$.

(a) If ${a^{12} = e}$, what can we say about the order of ${a}$

${|a| \le 12}$ and ${|a|\,|\,12}$

(b) Suppose that ${|G| = 24}$ and that ${G}$ is cyclic. If ${a^8 \neq e}$ and ${a^{12} \neq e}$, show that ${\langle a \rangle = G}$



4. Prove that a group of order ${3}$ must cyclic.

