---
tags: MATH_320 Elementary_Modern_Algebra Special_Types_Of_Groups Mathematics
---

${\{e,a,b,c\}}$

|     | e   | a   | b   | c   |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| e   | e   | a   | b   | c   |
| a   | a   | e   | c   | b   |
| b   | b   | c   | e   | a   |
| c   | c   | b   | a   | e   |

Klein ${4}$ group.

### 2.2 Permutation Groups

**Definition 2.2.1** A *permutation* of a set ${A}$ is a bijection from ${A}$ to ${A}$.

**Definition 2.2.2** A *permutation group* of a set ${A}$ is a set of permutations of ${A}$ that forms a group under function composition.

**Example 2.2.3.** We could define a permutation ${\alpha}$ on the set ${\{1,2,3,4\}}$ by specifying
$${\alpha(1) = 2,\;\alpha(2)=3,\;\alpha(3)=1,\;\alpha(4)=4}$$

${f,g \in \mathbb{R}[x]}$

${f(x), g(x)}$

${f(g(x))}$

${A = \{1,2,3\}}$

${f(1) = 2}$
${f(2) = 3}$
${f(3) = 1}$

${f^2(x) = f(f(x))}$

${f^2(1) = 3}$

A more convenient way to express this correspondence is to write ${\alpha}$ in array from as
$${\alpha = \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 2 & 3 & 4 \\ 2 & 3 & 1 & 4 \end{bmatrix}}$$
In this notation the top line is the starting point and the bottom line is where they are sent.

### 2.2.1 Cycle Notation

A permutation always breaks the set-up into distinct cycles. Because of this, we can use a further shorthand when writing out permutations called cycle notation. To see this, consider the permutation
$${\alpha = \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 2 & 3 & 4 & 5 & 6 \\ 2 & 1 & 4 & 6 & 5 & 3 \end{bmatrix}}$$

In cycle notation, this could be written as ${\alpha = (1,2)(3,4,6)(5)}$ since we have a cycle between ${1}$ and ${2}$, a cycle between ${3,4,6}$ and a cycle between ${5}$.

### 2.2.2 Properties of Permutation

**Theorem 2.2.5.** Every permutation of a finite set can be written as a cycle or as a product of disjoint cycles.

**Theorem 2.2.7** (Order of a permutation). The order of a permutation of a finite set written in disjoint cycle form is the least common multiple of the lengths of the cycles.

### 2.2.3 Even Odd Permutations

**Theorem 2.2.9** Every permutation in ${S_n}$, ${n > 1}$ is a product of ${2}$-cycles.
*Proof.* Consider ${\alpha = (a_1, ... a_n)}$, then a direct computation shows that
$${\alpha = (a_1a_n)(a_1a_{n-1})...(a_1a_2)}$$

**Theorem 2.2.10.** If a permutation ${\alpha}$ can be expressed as a product of an even (odd) number of ${2}$-cycles than every decomposition of ${\alpha}$ into a product of ${2}$-cycles must be even (odd).


