*Introduction to Linear Optimization*
Dimitris Bertsimas and John N. Tsitsiklis 
p. 42-46
February 11th 2025

___

### **Hyperplanes, Halfspaces, and Polyhedra**

> **Definition 2.1** A *polyhedron* is a set that can be described in the form ${\{x \in \mathbb{R}^n\,|\,Ax \ge b\}}$, where ${A}$ is an ${m \times n}$ matrix and ${b}$ is a vector in ${\mathbb{R}^m}$.

The *feasible set* of any linear programming problem can be described by the inequality constraints of the form ${Ax \ge b}$, and is therefore a polyhedron. 

A set of the form ${\{x \in \mathbb{R}^n \,|\,Ax = b, x \ge 0\}}$ is also a polyhedron and is called *standard form representation*.

>**Definition 2.2** A set ${S \subset \mathbb{R}^n}$ is *bounded* if there exists a constant ${K}$ such that the absolute value of every component of every element of ${S}$ is less than or equal to ${K}$.

The polyhedron can either "extend to infinity" or be confined.

>**Definition 2.3.** Let ${a}$ be a nonzero vector in ${\mathbb{R}^n}$ and let ${b}$ be a scalar.
*(a)* The set ${\{x \in \mathbb{R}^n\,|\,a^{T}x = b\}}$ is called a *hyperplane*.
*(b)* The set ${\{x \in \mathbb{R}^n \,|\,a^Tx \ge b\}}$ is called a *halfspace*.

*Notes:*
- A hyperplane is the boundary of a corresponding halfspace.

- Vector ${a}$ is perpendicular to the hyperplane itself.
	- ${a^{T}x = a^{T}y}$ where ${x,y}$ in hyperplane
	- ${\implies a^{T}(x-y) = 0}$
	- ${\implies a}$ is orthogonal to the hyperplane.

- Any polyhedron is the intersection of finite number of halfspaces

___

### **Convex Sets**

>**Definition 2.4.** A set ${S \subset \mathbb{R}^n}$ is *convex* if for any ${x,y \in S}$, and any ${\lambda \in [0,1]}$, we have ${\lambda x + (1-\lambda)y \in S}$

*Notes:*
The line segment connecting any two of a convex sets elements must be contained in the set.

>**Definition 2.5.** Let ${x^1,...x^k}$ be vectors in ${\mathbb{R}^n}$ and let ${\lambda_1,...\lambda_k}$ be nonnegative scalars whose sum is unity.
>*a)* The vector ${\sum\limits_{i=1}^k\lambda_1x^1}$ is said to be a *convex combination* of the vectors ${x^1,...,x^k}$.
>*b)* The *convex hull* of the vectors ${x^1,...,x^k}$ is the set of all convex combinations of these vectors.

*Notes:*
"Sum is unity" means they sum to ${1}$.

> ### **Theorem 2.1**
> *a)* The intersection of convex sets is also convex
> *b)* Every polyhedron is a convex set.
> *c)* A convex combination of a finite number of elements of a convex set also belongs to that set.
> *d)* The convex hull of a finite number of vectors is a convex set.

*Notes:*
The convex hull of a finite number of polyhedra is a polyhedra, so it is a convex set.
___