---
tags: Real_Analysis Mathematics
date: 5/12/2025
---

___

>**Definition** ${S \subseteq \Bbb{R}^n}$ is *bounded* if there exists ${\underline{a} \in \Bbb{R}^n}$ and ${r > 0}$ such that ${S \subseteq B(\underline{a}, r)}$

>**Theorem** (Bolzano-Weierstrauss)
Let ${S \subseteq \Bbb{R}^n}$ be an infinite bounded set. Then there is at least one point in ${\Bbb{R}^n}$ which is an accumulation point of ${S}$.
>
(Hint) In ${\Bbb{R}: }$ Since ${S}$ is bounded,
${S \subset [-a,a]}$ for some ${a > 0}$.
Bisect the interval, at least one of the intervals ${[-a,0]}$ or ${[0,a]}$ contains an infinite subset of ${S}$. Call it ${[a_1, b_1]}$.
Bisect ${[a_1,b_1]}$ and obtain a subinterval ${[a_2,b_2]}$ contains an infinite subset of ${S}$. Repeat this process to obtain intervals ${[a_n, b_n], n = 1,2,...}$ with ${b_n - a_n = \dfrac{\alpha}{2^{n-1}}}$
>
${[a_{n+1}, b_{n+1}] \subseteq [a_n,b_n]}$
Thus
${a_1\le a_2 \le ... \le a_n \le b_n \le ... \le b_1}$
Take ${x = \sup \{a_n\} = \inf\{b_n\}}$
>
Then ${x}$ is an accumulation point of ${S}$ (since ${B(x,r) \supseteq [a_n, b_n]}$ if ${b_n - a_n < \frac{r}{2}}$)
>
For ${\Bbb{R}^n: S \subseteq B(\underline{o}, a), a > 0}$
${\implies S \subseteq J_1 = I_1^{(1)} \times I_2^{(1)} \times ... \times I_n^{(1)}}$
where ${I_k^{(1)} = [-a,a]}$
Bisect each ${I_k^{(1)}}$ to obtain
${J_2 = I_1^{(2)} \times I_2^{(2)} \times ... \times I_n^{(2)}}$
that contains an infinite subset of ${S}$.
Repeat this process to obtain
${J_m = I_1^{(m)} \times I_2^{(m)} \times ... \times I_n^{(m)}}$
with ${J_{m+1} \subseteq J_m\;\;m=1,...}$
${I_k^{(m)} = [a_k^{(m)}, b_k^{(m)}], I_k^{(m+1)} \subseteq I_k^{(m)}}$
${b_k^{(m)} - a_k^{(m)} = \dfrac{a}{2^{m-2}}}$
> 
> Take ${\underline{x} = (x_1, x_2, ..., x_n)}$ with
> ${x_k = \sup\limits_m\{a_k^{(m)}\} = \inf\limits_m\{b_k^{(m)}\}}$
> Then ${\underline{x}}$ is an accumulation point of ${S}$. (Since ${B(\underline{x},r) \supset J_m}$ for ${\frac{a}{2^{m-2}} < \frac{r}{2}})$

>**Theorem** Let ${\{Q_1, Q_2, ...\}}$ be a countable collection of *nonempty* sets in ${\Bbb{R}^n}$ such that:
>1. ${Q_{k+1} \subseteq Q_k\;\;k = 1,2,3,...}$
>2. Each ${Q_k}$ is closed and ${Q_1}$ is bounded
Then ${\bigcap\limits_{k=1}^\infty Q_k}$ is closed and nonempty.
>
*Proof:* Let ${S = \bigcap\limits_{k=1}^\infty Q_k}$
${S}$ is closed since it is an intersection of closed sets.
We may assume each ${Q_k}$ contains infinitely many points. Otherwise the point is trivial. Choose distinct points ${x_k \in Q_k}$ for each ${k}$. Let ${A = \{x_1,x_2,...\}}$ infinite set.
${A \subseteq Q_1}$ bounded.
By Bolzano-Weierstrauss theorem, ${A}$ has an accumulation point, say ${x}$.
Claim: ${x}$ is an accumulation point of ${Q_k}$ for all ${k=1,...}$
Thus ${x \in Q_k}$ (since ${Q_k}$ is closed) ${\forall k}$
${\implies x \in S = \bigcap\limits_{k=1}^\infty Q_k}$
Fix ${Q_k}$
${Q_k \ge Q_{k+1} \ge Q_{k+2} \ge ...}$
${\implies \{x_k, x_{k+1}, ...\} \subseteq Q_k}$
Since ${x}$ is an accumulation point of ${A}$, ${B(x,r)}$ contains infinitely many point of ${A}$. But all except finitely many points of ${A}$ are in ${Q_k}$.
${\implies B(x,r)}$ contains infinitely many point of ${Q_k}$ i.e. ${x}$ is an accumulation point of ${Q_k}$.

**Exercise** Let ${\{a_k\}_{k=1}^\infty \subseteq \Bbb{R}}$.
Show that ${\{\sin(a_k)\}_{k=1}^\infty}$ has a convergent subsequence.

**Definition** Let ${A = \{A_i\}_{i \in \wedge}}$ be a collection of open sets. ${A}$ is called an *open covering* of a set ${S}$ if ${S \subseteq \bigcup_{i \in \wedge}A_i}$

**Example** Let ${S = (0,1)}$
${A = \{(\frac{1}{n}, \frac{2}{n})\}_{n=1}^\infty}$ is an open covering of ${S}$.

>**Theorem** Let ${G = \{A_1, A_2, ...\}}$ denote the countable collection of all balls in ${\Bbb{R}^n}$ with rational radii and rational centers.
Let ${S \subseteq \Bbb{R}^n}$ open.
Then for any ${\underline{x} \in S}$, there exists ${A_k}$ such that ${\underline{x} \in A_k \subseteq S}$.
>
*Proof:*
Since ${S}$ is open and ${\underline{x} \in S}$, there exists ${B(\underline{x}, r) \subseteq S}$.
Write ${\underline{x} = (x_1, x_2, ..., x_n)}$
Choose ${y_k \in Q}$ such that
${|y_k - x_k| < \frac{r}{4n}}$ for ${k = 1,2,...,n}$
Then ${||\underline{y} - \underline{x}|| \le |y_1 - x_1| + |y_2 - x_2| + ... + |y_n-x_n < \frac{r}{4}}$
Choose ${q \in Q}$ such that ${\frac{r}{4} < q \frac{r}{2}}$.
Then ${\underline{x} \in B(\underline{y},q)}$ and ${B(\underline{y}, q) \le B(\underline{x}, r) \subseteq S}$