---
tags: Real_Analysis Mathematics
date: 5/12/2025
---

___

>**Theorem.** (Heine-Borel)
>Let ${S \subseteq \Bbb{R}^n}$ be closed and bounded.
>Let ${A}$ be an open covering of ${S}$.
>Then ${A}$ has a finite subcover.
>
*Proof:*
By Lindelöf covering theorem, ${A}$ has a countable subcover ${\mathfrak{B} = \{A_1, A_2, ...\}}$
Consider ${B_m = \bigcup\limits_{i=1}^m A_i}$, which is open.
Claim: ${S \subseteq B_m}$ for some ${m}$.
Define 
${Q_1 = S \setminus B_1 = S \cap B_1^c}$ closed
${Q_2 = S \setminus B_2 = S \cap B_2^c}$ closed
...
${Q_m = S \setminus B_m = S \cap B_m^c}$ closed
Want to show ${Q_m = \emptyset}$ for some ${m}$.
>
*Note:* ${Q_{m+1} \subseteq Q_m \subseteq Q_1}$ bounded.
${Q_m}$ closed ${\; \forall\;m}$
Suppose all ${Q_m \neq \emptyset}$.
Then by a theorem before, ${\bigcap\limits_{m=1}^\infty Q_m \neq \emptyset}$.
${\implies \exists x \in S}$ such that ${x \notin B_m \; \forall m}$
${\rightarrow\!\leftarrow S \subseteq \bigcup\limits_{i=1}^\infty A_i}$.

___

## **Compact Sets**

>**Definition** ${S \subseteq \Bbb{R}^n}$ is *compact* if every open covering of ${S}$ has a finite subcover.

>**Theorem** Let ${S \subseteq \Bbb{R}^n}$. Then the following are equivalent.
>1. ${S}$ is compact
>2. ${S}$ is closed and bounded.
>3. Every infinite subset of ${S}$ has an accumulation point in ${S}$.
>
>*Proof:* 
>${(2) \implies (1)}$ by Heine-Borel.
>
>We will show ${(1) \implies (2) \iff (3)}$
>
>"${(1) \implies (2)}$" 
>Assume ${S}$ is compact.
>Fix ${x \in S}$
>Consider ${\{B(x,r)\}_{r=1}^\infty}$ which is an opening covering of ${S}$.
>Thus there exists a finite subcover
>${\{B(x,r_i\}_{i=1}^m}$ Then ${S \subseteq B(x,r_M)}$ bounded.
>Claim: ${S}$ is closed.
>i.e. ${S}$ contains all its accumulation points.
>Suppose ${S}$ is *NOT* closed.
>i.e. there exists an accumulation point ${y}$ of ${S}$ such that ${y \notin S}$.
>For each ${x \in S}$, we have ${x \neq y}$.
>Let ${r_x := \frac{1}{3} ||x - y|| > 0}$.
>Then ${B(x,r_x) \cap B(y,r_x) = \emptyset}$, and ${\{B(x,r_x\,|\,x \in S\}}$ is an open covering of ${S}$. Since ${S}$ is compact, there is a finite subcover, say ${S \subseteq \bigcup\limits_{i=1}^m B(x_i,r_{x_i})}$
>Let ${r := \min\{r_{x_i}, i=1,2,...,m\}}$
>Claim: ${B(y,r) \cap S = \emptyset}$
>${\rightarrow\!\leftarrow}$ y is an accumulation point of ${S}$.
>For ${x \in S}$, ${x \in B(x_j, r_{x_j})}$ for some ${1 \le j \le m}$.
>Since ${(B(y,r)\cap B(x_j, r_{x_j}))}$
>${\subseteq (B(y,r_{x_j}) \cap B(x_j, r_{x_j})) = \emptyset}$
>${\implies x \notin B(y,r)}$
>Hence ${B(y,r) \cap S = \emptyset}$.
>"${(2) \implies (3)}$"
>Let ${T \subset S}$ be an infinite subset.
>Then ${T}$ is bounded, since ${S}$ is bounded.
>By Bolzano-Weierstrauss theorem, ${T}$ has an accumulation point, say ${x}$, which is also an accumulation point of ${S}$. Since ${S}$ is closed ${\implies x \in S}$.
> 
> "${(3) \implies (2)}$"
> Claim ${S}$ is bounded.
> Assume ${S}$ is unbounded.
> Then there exists an infinite set 
> ${T = \{x_1, x_2, ...\}}$
> with ${||x_m|| < ||x_{m+1}||}$
> ${m = 1,2,...}$
> ${m < ||x_m||}$
> By assumption of ${(3)}$, ${T}$ has an accumulation point ${y \in S}$.
> But for ${m > 1 + ||y||}$
> ${||x_m - y|| \ge ||x_m|| - ||y|| > 1}$
> Claim: ${S}$ is closed.
> ${\iff S}$ contains all its accumulation points
> Let ${x}$ be an accumulation point of ${S}$.
> Since every neighborhood of ${x}$ contains infinitely many points of ${S}$, we can consider ${B(x, \frac{1}{k})}$, ${k= 1,2,..}$ to obtain a set of distinct points
> ${T = \{x_1, x_2, ...\} \subset S}$ with ${x_k \in B(x, \frac{1}{k})}$
> Clearly, ${x}$ is an accumulation point of ${T}$.
> Claim: ${x}$ is the only accumulation point of ${T}$. (Thus, ${x \in S}$ by assumption)
> *Proof:* Suppose ${\exists y \neq x}$, that is also an accumulation point of ${T}$.
> Take ${r = \frac{1}{3}||x-  y|| > 0}$
> Then ${B(x,r) \cap B(y,r) >0}$
> Then ${B(x,r) \cap B(y,r) = \emptyset}$.
> Take ${n \in \Bbb{N}}$ large enough such that ${\frac{1}{N} < r}$.
> Then ${B(x, \frac{1}{n}) \subset B(x, \frac{1}{N}) \subset B(x, \frac{1}{r}) \; \forall\;n \ge N}$
> ${\implies}$ For all ${n \ge N}$, ${x_n \in B(x, \frac{1}{r})\; \forall\; n \ge \Bbb{N}}$ and hence ${x_n \notin B(y,r)}$
> Take ${r' := \min\{\frac{1}{3} ||x_1 - y||, ..., \frac{1}{3}||x_{N-1} -y ||, r\}}$
> Then ${x_n \notin B(y,r') \;\forall\; n= 1,2,...}$
> ${\rightarrow\!\leftarrow}$ ${y}$ is an accumulation point of ${T}$.

___