---
tags: MATH_320 Elementary_Modern_Algebra Group_Morphisms_and_Actions Mathematics
---

**Definition 3.1.1.** (Homomorphism) Let ${G}$ and ${H}$ be groups. A *homomorphism* from ${G}$ to ${H}$ is a function ${\phi:\;G\to H}$ such that ${\phi(x) = x \mod n}$. We have then that ${\phi}$ is a homomorphism.

To show this, consider
$${\phi(gh) = \phi(g)\phi(h)}$$

**Definition 3.1.3.** (Isomorphism) Let ${G}$ and ${H}$ to be groups. An *isomorphism* from ${G}$ to ${H}$ is a function ${\phi: G \to H}$ that is a homomorphism and a bijection.

**Definition 3.1.4** (Automorphism)

**Procedure 3.1.6**
1. Define a candidate mapping, ${\phi}$, from ${G}$ to ${H}$.
2. Prove that ${\phi}$ is one-to-one
3. Prove that ${\phi}$ is onto.
4. Prove that ${\phi}$ is operation preserving, that is ${\phi(a)\phi(b) = \phi(ab)}$ for all ${a,b \in G}$

For a homomorphism, we just need steps 1 and 4.

### **3.2 Properties of Isomorphism**

**Theorem 3.2.1** (Properties of isomorphisms acting on elements). Let ${G}$, ${H}$, be groups and ${\phi}$ be a isomorphism from ${G}$ to ${H}$, then
1. ${\phi(e_1) = c_2}$
2. ${\phi(g^n)=\phi(g)^n}$
3. ${gh = hg}$ if and only if ${\phi(g)\phi(h) = \phi(h)\phi(g)}$ for all ${g,h \in G}$
4. If ${G}$ is finite, then ${G}$ and ${H}$ have exactly the same number of elements of finite order.

**Theorem 3.2.2.**
1. ${\phi^{-1}}$ is an isomorphism from ${H}$ to ${G}$
2. ${G}$ is commutative if and only if ${H}$ is commutative
3. ${G}$ is cyclic if and only if ${H}$ is cyclic.
4. If ${K}$ is a subgroup of ${G}$, then ${\phi(K) = \{\phi(K)\,|\,k \in K\}}$ is a subgroup of ${H}$.
5. ${\phi(Z(G)) = Z(H)}$.

**Corollary 3.2.3** Let ${G,H}$ be groups and ${\phi}$ be a homomorphism from ${G}$ to ${H}$. If ${g \in G}$ has finite order, then ${\phi(g)}$ has finite order and ${|\phi(g)|}$ divides ${|\phi(g)|}$ divides ${G}$.

**Theorem 3.2.4** Let ${G}$ be a group with ${g \in G}$, then
1. If ${|g|}$ is infinite, then ${\langle g \rangle \cong (\mathbb{Z},+)}$
2. If ${|g| = n}$ is finite, then ${\langle g \rangle \cong \mathbb{Z}_n}$
 
**Theorem 3.2.5.** (Cayley's Theorem) Every group is isomorphic to a group of permutations.

### 3.2.1 Exercises

1. Find an isomorphism from the group of integers under addition to the group of even integers under addition.

${\phi(x) = 2x}$

2. Let ${G}$ be a group. Prove that the mapping ${\alpha(g) = g^{-1}}$ for all ${g \in G}$ is an automorphism if and only if ${G}$ is commutative.

${\alpha(g) = g^{-1}}$
${\alpha(g^{-1}) = g}$
${\alpha(g)\alpha(g^{-1}) = g^{-1}g = e = \alpha(g^{-1})\alpha(g) = gg^{-1}}$
Commutative

${g \in G}$ means that ${g^{-1} \in G}$
Likewise, ${g^{-1} \in G}$ means that ${g \in G}$

3. Let
4. Give an example of a cyclic group of smallest order that contains a subgroup isomorphic to ${\mathbb{Z}_{12}}$ and a subgroup isomorphic to ${\mathbb{Z}_{20}}$