---
tags: MATH_320 Elementary_Modern_Algebra Group_Morphisms_and_Actions Mathematics
---

1. The *kernel* of ${\phi}$ is defined as ${\ker(\phi) = \{g \in G \,|\, \phi(g) = e\}}$
2. The *image* of ${\phi}$ is defined as ${\text{im}(\phi) = \{h \in G \,|\, \phi(g) = h, g \in G \}}$

**Theorem 3.3.3** Let ${\phi: G \to H}$ be a *homomorphism*. Then ${\ker{\phi}}$ is a subgroup of ${G}$ and ${\text{im}(G)}$ is a subgroup of ${H}$.
*Proof.*
$${\phi(ab^{-1}) = \phi(a) \phi(b^{-1}) = \phi(a)\phi(b)^{-1} = e}$$
Thus ${\ker(\phi)}$ is a subgroup of ${G}$.
Now for the image being a subgroup of ${H}$.
$${ab^{-1} = \phi(x)\phi(y)^{-1} = \phi(xy^{-1})}$$

**Theorem 3.3.4.** Let ${\phi: G \to H}$ be a homomorphism, then ${\ker(\phi) = \{e\}}$ if and only if ${\phi}$ is injective.

**Theorem 3.3.5.** Let ${\phi: G \to H}$ be a homomorphism, and let ${K}$ be the kernel of ${\phi}$. Then for any ${k \in K}$ and ${x \in G}$. We have ${xkx^{-1} \in K}$

### **3.4 Automorphism Groups**

**Definition 3.4.1** (Inner automorphism).

**Example 3.4.2.** Let ${P}$ be an arbitrary permutation matrix. Then ${PAP^{-1}}$ is an inner automorphism of ${GL(n, \mathbb{R})}$

**Definition 3.4.3.** The set of automorphisms of a group, ${G}$, is denoted ${\text{Aut}(G)}$, the operation will be function composition.
Similarly, the set of inner automorphisms will be defined ${\text{Inn}(G)}$, with the operation again being function composition.

**Theorem 3.4.4.** The set of automorphisms of a group and the set of inner automorphisms of a group are both groups under the operation of function composition.



### **3.4.1 Exercises**
1. Suppose that ${\phi: \mathbb{Z}_{10} \to \mathbb{Z}_{10}}$ is an automorphism and ${\phi(5) = 5}$. What are the possibilities for ${\phi(x)}$? Hint: Consider where the generators of ${\mathbb{Z}_{10}}$ could be mapped.

Generators of ${\mathbb{Z}_{10} = \langle 1 \rangle, \langle 3 \rangle, \langle 7 \rangle, \langle 9 \rangle}$

${\phi(x)+\phi(y) = \phi(x+y)}$

${\phi(x) = x}$
${\phi(x) = 3x}$
${\phi(x) = 7x}$
${\phi(x) = 9x}$


Map generators to standard generator.

2. If ${a,b \in \mathbb{S}_n}$ for ${n \ge 3}$, prove that ${\phi_a = \phi_b}$ implies that ${a = b}$. Hint: The center of ${S_n}$ is ${\{e\}}$ for ${n \ge 3}$



${\phi_a = \phi_b \implies axa^{-1} = bxb^{-1}}$
${b^{-1}ax = xb^{-1}a}$
This is commutative, so ${b^{-1}a = e}$
So ${a = b}$

1. Prove that ${\mathbb{Q}}$ under addition is not isomorphic to a proper subgroup of itself.

Not onto

2. Prove that the set of inner automorphisms with function composition of a group ${G}$ forms a group. 

${axa^{-1}}$ where ${a \in G}$

Group test
3. Nonempty
Take ${e}$
4. Identity
For ${axa^{-1}}$