### **0.1.1 Direct Proof and Counterexample**

**Definition 0.1.1** An integer ${n}$ is even if and only if, ${n}$ equals twice some integer. An integer ${n}$ is odd if, and only if ${n}$ equals twice some integer plus 1.
Symbolically this gives:
${n}$ is even ${\iff n = 2k}$ for some integer ${k}$
${n}$ is odd ${n = 2k + 1}$ for some integer ${k}$

**Procedure 0.1.3** (Proving existential and disproving universal statements).
${\exists x \in D}$ such that ${Q(x)}$
Just need to find one ${X \in D}$

Disproving a statement, just need to find one counterexample.

Proving universal statement
1. **Method of Exhaustion**: If domain is finite and you can split it into finite cases, check all the cases.
2. **Direct proof**: Use definition, previous theorems, and other results to get directly to our result.
The general form of this proof will start with
Let ${x \in D}$ such that ${P(x)}$ is true, then...
3. **Proof by Contradiction**: Another common proof strategy is contradiction. Here we are going to assume ${~Q(x)}$ and ${P(x)}$ then try to reach a logical contradiction. This strategy can be helpful since we get the extra information on ${x}$ that ${~Q(x)}$ is true.

### **General Tips**

*Copy the statement of the theorem to be proved on your paper*

*Clearly mark the beginning of your proof with the word Proof

*Make your proof self-contained*

*Write your proof in complete, grammatically correct sentences*

*Keep your reader informed about the status of each statement in your proof*
Your reader should never be in doubt about whether something in your proof has been assumed or established, or is still to be deduced. If something is assumed, preface it with a word like Suppose or Assume.

*Give a reason for each assertion in your proof*

*Include the "little words and phrases" that make the logic of your arguments clear*
Put in filler words to make it flow more naturally. Little phrases like "Observe that, or Note that, or Recall that, or But, or Now".

*Display equations and inequalities*
The convention is to display equations and inequalities on separate lines to increase readability, both for other people and for ourselves so that we can more easily check our work for accuracy.

### 0.1.3 Common Mistakes

**Arguing from examples**
Looking at examples is one of the most helpful practices a problem solver can engage in, and is encouraged. However, you can not make a full argument from individual cases.

**Using the same letter to mean two different things**
Think of the "scope" of the mathematical variable as covering the entire proof. Make sure to not double use the same letter or symbol, unless you clearly redefine it.

**Jumping to a conclusion**
To jump to a conclusion means to allege the truth of something without giving an adequate reason. Especially for early proofs, always justify every step you take.

**Assuming what is to be proved**
To assume what is to be proved is a variation of jumping to a conclusion.

**Use of any when the correct word is some**
Sometimes the word some acts like an any in a statement, and other times it acts like a there exists. I generally only use some when writing the phrase "\[statement is true] for some value"

**Misuse of the word if**
Another common error is not serious in itself, but it reflects imprecise thinking that sometimes leads to problems later in a proof. This error involves using the word if when the word because is really meant. Using the word "if" can sometimes lead to doubt on whether the value is known. I like to use "if" in proofs when I am doing a proof with cases.

### **0.1.4 Example Proofs**

**Lemma 0.1.7** If ${p \in \mathbb{Z}}$ is even, then ${p^2}$ is even.

*Proof*. Let ${p \in \mathbb{Z}}$ be even, then by the definition of even ${p = 2k}$ for some ${k \in \mathbb{Z}}$.
Now
$${p^2 = (2k)^2 = 4k^2}$$
Therefore, ${p^2}$ is even.

### **0.1.5 Mathematical Induction**

**Definition 0.1.16** (Principal of mathematical induction). Let ${P(n)}$ be a property that is defined for integers ${n}$, and let ${a}$ be a fixed integer. Suppose the following two statements are true:
1. ${P(a)}$
2. For every integer ${k \ge a}$, if ${P(k)}$ is true, then ${P(k+1)}$ is true.

Then the statement
$${\text{for every integer } n \ge a, P(n))}$$
is true.

### **0.1.6 Exercises**

1. Prove that there is an integer ${n > 5}$ such that ${2^n - 1}$ is prime.
*Proof.*
Suppose ${n = 7}$
Then ${2^n - 1 = 2^7 - 1 = 127}$ which is prime. Therefore, there exists integers ${n>5}$ that are prime.

2. Prove that for every integer ${n}$, if ${\frac{(n-1)}{2}}$ is an integer, then ${n}$ is odd.
Assume ${\frac{n-1}{2} = k}$ where ${k \in \mathbb{Z}}$
This means ${n-1 = 2k}$, or ${n = 2k+1}$.
This means ${n}$ must be odd by definition.

3. Prove that the difference between the squares of any two consecutive integers is odd.
Suppose ${x \in \mathbb{Z}}$. ${(x+1)^2 - x^2 = 2x + 1}$
Therefore, the difference between two consecutive integers is odd.

4. Prove the following by induction
a) ${1^2 + 2^2 + ... + n^2 = \dfrac{n(n+1)(2n+1)}{6}}$ for all ${n \ge 1}$
