**Definition 0.3.1.** Let ${A}$ and ${B}$ be sets ${A}$ relation ${R}$ from ${A}$ to ${B}$ is a subset of ${A \times B}$. We use ${xRy}$ to mean ${(x,y) \in R}$. The set ${A}$ is called the domain and ${B}$ is called the co-domain.
**Definition 0.3.2.** Let ${R}$ be a relation from ${A}$ to be ${B}$. Define the inverse relation ${R^{-1}}$ from ${B}$ to ${A}$ as
$${R^{-1} = \{(y,x) \in B \times A\;|\;(x,y) \in \mathbb{R}\}}$$

Given sets ${A_1, A_2, ... A_n}$, an n-ary relation ${R}$ is a subset of ${A_1 \times ... \times A_n}$

### **Reflexivity, Symmetry, and Transitivity**
1. ${R}$ is *reflexive* if and only if for every ${x \in A, xRx}$.
2. ${R}$ is *symmetric* if and only if for every ${x,y \in A}$, if ${xRy}$ then ${yRx}$.
3. ${R}$ is *transitive* if and only if for every ${x,y,z \in A}$, if ${xRy}$ and ${yRz}$ then ${xRz}$

**Definition 0.3.9.** Let ${A}$ be a set and ${R}$ be a relation on ${A}$. The *transitive closure* of ${R}$ is the relation ${R^t}$ on ${A}$ that satisfies the following three properties.
1. ${R^t}$ is transitive.
2. ${R \subseteq R^t}$
3. If ${S}$ is any other transitive relation that contains ${R}$, then ${R^t \subseteq S}$.

### **0.3.3 Equivalence Relations**

**Definition 0.3.11.** Given a partition of set ${A}$, the *relation induced by the partition*, ${R}$, is defined on ${A}$ as follows: For every ${x,y \in A, (x,y) \in R}$ if ${x}$ and ${y}$ are contained in the same subset of the partition.

**Theorem 0.3.13.** Let ${A}$ be a set with a partition and let ${R}$ be the relation induced by the partition. ${R}$ is reflexive, symmetric, and transitive.

**Definition 0.3.14.** Let ${A}$ be a set and ${R}$ a relation on ${A}$, then ${R}$ is an *equivalence relation* if and only if ${R}$ is reflexive, symmetric, and transitive.

**Definition 0.3.15.** Suppose ${A}$ is a set and ${R}$ equivalence relation on ${A}$. For each element ${a \in A}$, the *equivalence class of ${a}$* denoted ${[a]}$ is the set of all elements ${x \in A}$ such that ${(x,a) \in R}$. The element ${a}$ is called the *representative* of the equivalence class ${[A]}$

**Example 0.3.16.** Let ${A =\{0,1,2,3,4\}}$  with the partition
$${\{0,3,4\},\;\{1\},\;\{2\}}$$
then the equivalence class of ${A}$ is
${[0], [3], [4] = \{0,3,4\}}$
${[1] = \{1\}}$
${[2] = \{2\}}$

**Lemma 0.3.18.** Suppose ${A}$ is a set, ${R}$ is an equivalence relation on ${A}$, and ${a,b \in R}$, then ${[a] = [b]}$

**Definition 0.3.20.** Let ${m,n \in Z}$ and let ${d \in \mathbb{Z}^+}$. We say that ${m}$ is *congruent* to ${n}$ modulo ${d}$ and write
$${m \equiv n \mod d}$$
if and only if
$${d\,|\,(m-n)}$$

___
### *Examples*

1. Let ${A = \{-1, 1, 2, 4\}}$ and ${B = \{1,2\}}$ and define relations ${R}$ and ${S}$ from ${A}$ to ${B}$ as follows: For every ${(x,y) \in A \times B}$  

${A \times B = \{(-1,1) (-1,2) (1,1) (1,2) (2,1) (2,2) (4,1) (4,2)\}}$
${(-1,1) (1,1) (2,2)}$
${(-1,1) (1,1) (2,2) (4,2)}$
${(-1,1) (1,1) (2,2) (4,2)}$
${(-1,1) (1,1) (2,2)}$

2. Let ${C}$ be the circle relation on the set of real numbers: For every ${x,y \in \mathbb{R}}$, ${(x,y) \in C}$ if and only if ${x^2 + y^2 = 1}$. Determine if ${C}$ is reflexive, transitive, and symmetric.

Reflexive: ${(x,y) \in C}$, ${}


3. If ${R}$ and ${S}$ are reflexive, then is ${R \cap S}$ reflexive?
Yes.
4. If ${R}$ and ${S}$ are reflexive, then is ${R \cup S}$ reflexive?
Yes.

5. ${X = \{-1,0,1\}}$, let ${A = \mathcal{P}(X)}$, and define ${R}$ to be a relation on ${A}$ such that
${(s,t) \in R \iff}$ the sum of the elements in ${s}$ equals the sum of the elements in ${t}$
Find the distinct equivalence classes of ${R}$
${[-1], [0], [1]}$
6. Let ${A = \{-4,-3,-2,-1,0,1,2,3,4\}}$ and define ${R}$ on ${A}$ to be
$${(m,n) \in R \iff 4\,|\, (m^2-n^2)}.$$
Find the distinct equivalence classes of ${R}$
${[-4]}$
${[-3]}$