**Definition 0.4.1.** A function ${F}$ from set ${A}$ to set ${B}$ with domain ${A}$ and codomain ${B}$ that satisfies the following two properties:
1. For every elements ${x \in A}$, there is an element ${y \in B}$ such that ${(x,y) \in F}$
2. For all elements ${x \in A}$ and ${y \in B}$, if ${(x,y) \in F}$ and ${(x,z) \in F}$ then ${y = z}$
For functions, we frequently use the notation ${F(x)}$ where ${x \in A}$ and ${F(x) \in B}$

**Definition 0.4.3.** (Equality of functions). Let ${\alpha: A \to B}$ and ${\beta: A \to B}$, then ${\alpha = \beta}$ if ${\alpha(a) = \beta (A)}$ for all ${a \in A}$.

**Definition 0.4.4.** Let ${f: A \to B}$ be a function. We say that the *image* of ${a \in A}$ under ${f}$ is the element ${b \in B}$ such that ${f(a) = b}$. We can also take an image of sets, for a set ${A' \subseteq A}$ the image ${f(A') \,|\,A \in A'}$.

**Definition 0.4.6**A function ${\phi: A \to B}$ is called *one-to-one* or *injective* if for every ${a_1, a_2 \in A}$ if ${\phi(a_1) = \phi(a_2)}$ then ${a_1 = a_2}$

Can't have two different inputs with the same output.

**Definition 0.4.7** *onto*

**Definition 0.4.8** A function that is both *one-to-one* and *onto* is called a bijection.

**Theorem 0.4.9.** Given functions ${\alpha: A \to B, \beta: B \to C,}$ and ${\gamma: C \to D}$, then
1. Associativity
2. If ${\alpha}$ and ${\beta}$ are one-to-one, then ${\beta\alpha}$ is one-to-one.
3. If ${\alpha}$ and ${\beta}$ are onto, then ${\beta\alpha}$ is onto.
4. If ${\alpha}$ and ${\beta}$ are bijective, then ${\beta\alpha}$ is bijective.
5. If ${\alpha}$ is a bijection, then there is a function ${\alpha^{-1}: B \to A}$ such that ${(\alpha^{-1}\alpha)(a) = a}$ for all ${a \in A}$ and ${\alpha\alpha^{-1}(b) = b}$ for all ${b \in B}$

### 0.4.1 Exercises

1. Show that ${f: \mathbb{R} \to \mathbb{R}}$ defined by ${f(x) = x^2}$ is neither one-to-one or onto. Give a domain/co-domain restriction that makes it one-to-one and onto.

Since ${f(1) = f(-1) = 1}$ but ${1 \ne -1}$, ${f(x)}$ is not one-to-one.

Since the ${x}$ spans ${\mathbb{R}}$ but ${f(x)}$ only exists when ${f(x) \ge 0}$ which is not ${\mathbb{R}}$, the mapping is not onto. For example, ${f(x) = -1}$ is not in ${\mathbb{R}}$

If we restrict to ${x > 0}$, ${f(x)}$ is bijective.

2. Prove that ${f: \mathbb{R} \to \mathbb{R}}$ defined by ${f(x) = 2x+1}$ forms a bijection.

${x}$ and ${f(x)}$ both span ${\mathbb{R}}$, so the solution is onto.
Since the ${f'(x) = 2 \ge 0}$, the solution is monotonically increasing and thus has a unique ${f(x)}$ for every ${x}$.

3. Prove that there is a bijection between ${\mathbb{N}}$ and ${\mathbb{Z}}$.

Set all the odds to negatives and evens to positives or vice versa.

4. How many distinct bijections are there between sets ${A = \{1,2,3\}}$ and ${B = \{a,b,c\}}$? In general, how many bijections are there between two sets of size ${n}$

Answer: ${6}$


5. Suppose that ${\alpha, \beta,}$ and ${\gamma}$ are functions over a set ${A}$. If ${\alpha\gamma = \beta \gamma}$ and ${\gamma}$ is a bijection, then prove that ${\alpha = \beta}$

${\alpha\gamma\gamma^{-1} = \beta\gamma\gamma^{-1}}$
${\alpha = \beta}$

