---
tags: MATH_320 Elementary_Modern_Algebra Rings_and_Fields Mathematics
---


**Definition 5.5.1.** A *ring homomorphism* ${\phi}$ from a ring ${R}$ to a ring ${S}$ is a mapping from ${R}$ to ${S}$ that preserves the two ring operations; that is, for all ${a,b \in R}$,
$${\phi(a+b) = \phi(a) + \phi(b) \text{ and } \phi(ab) = \phi(a)\phi(b)}$$

**Theorem 5.5.5** (Properties of ring homomorphisms). Let ${\phi}$ be a ring homomorphism from a ring ${R}$ to a ring ${S}$. Let ${A}$ be a subring of ${R}$ and let ${B}$ be an ideal of ${S}$.

1. For any ${r \in R}$ and any positive integer ${n}$, ${\phi(nr) = n\phi(r)}$ and ${\phi(r^n) = (\phi(r))^n}$
2. ${\phi(A) = \{\phi(A)\,|\,a \in A\}}$ is a subring of ${S}$.
3. If ${A}$ is an ideal and ${\phi}$ is onto ${S}$, then ${\phi(A)}$ is an ideal.
4. ${\phi^{-1}(B) = \{ r \in R \,|\, \phi(r) \in B\}}$ is an ideal of ${R}$.
5. If ${R}$ is commutative, then ${\phi(R)}$ is commutative.
6. If ${R}$ has a unity ${1}$, ${S \neq \{ 0 \}}$, and ${\phi}$ is onto, then ${\phi(1)}$ is the unity of ${S}$.
7. ${\phi}$ is an isomorphism if and only if ${\phi}$ is onto and ${\text{Ker}(\phi) = \{ r \in R \, | \, \phi(r) = 0\} = \{0\}}$ 
8. If ${\phi}$ is an isomorphism from ${R}$ onto ${S}$, then ${\phi^{-1}}$ is an isomorphism from ${S}$ onto ${R}$.

**Theorem 5.5.6** (Kernels are ideals). Let ${\phi}$ be a ring homomorphism from a ring ${R}$ to a ring ${S}$. Then ${\text{Ker} (\phi) = \{r \in R \,|\, \phi(r) = 0\}}$  is an ideal of ${R}$.

**Theorem 5.5.7** (First isomorphism theorem for Rings). Let ${\phi}$ be a ring homomorphism from ${R}$ to ${S}$. Then the mapping from ${R/\text{Ker}(\phi)}$ to ${\phi(R)}$, given by ${r + \text{Ker}(\phi) \to \phi(r)}$ is an isomorphism.

**Theorem 5.5.8** (Ideals are kernels). Every ideal of a ring ${R}$ is the kernel of a ring homomorphism of ${R}$. In particular, an ideal ${A}$ is the kernel of the mapping ${r \to r + A}$ from ${R}$ to ${R/A}$.

**Theorem 5.5.9** (Homomorphism from ${\Bbb{Z}}$ to a ring with unity). Let ${R}$ be a ring with unity ${1}$. The mapping ${\phi: \Bbb{Z} \to \Bbb{R}}$ given by ${n \to n \cdot 1}$ is a ring homomorphism.

**Corollary 5.5.10** (A ring with unity contains ${\Bbb{Z}_n}$ or ${\Bbb{Z}}$). If a ring ${R}$ with unity and characteristic of ${R}$ is ${n > 0}$, then ${R}$ contains a subring isomorphic to ${\Bbb{Z}_n}$. If the characteristic of ${R}$ is ${0}$, then ${R}$ contains a subring isomorphic to ${\Bbb{Z}}$.