---
tags: MATH_320 Elementary_Modern_Algebra Groups Mathematics
---

### 1.1 Definitions and examples

**Definition 1.1.1** Let ${G}$ be a set. A *binary operation* on ${G}$ is a function that assigns each order pair of elements on ${G}$ an element of ${G}$.
So a binary operation, in its most general form, is a relation on a single set that is closed. Note that this definition does not require inverses, associativity, commutativity, etc.

**Example 1.1.2** The usual addition operation over the integers is a binary operation, that is ${a+b \in \mathbb{Z}}$, for all ${a,b \in \mathbb{Z}}$ Another way to write this would be ${+:\mathbb{Z} \times \mathbb{Z} \to \mathbb{Z}}$.

**Definition 1.1.3** Let ${G}$ be a set together with a binary operation that assigns to each ordered pair ${(a,b)}$ of elements of ${G}$. If its a *group*:
1. Associativity: For all ${a,b,c \in G}$, we have ${(ab)c = a(bc)}$
2. Identity: There exists an element, ${e \in G}$, such that ${ae = ea = a}$ for all ${a \in G}$
3. Inverses: For each element, ${a \in G}$ there is an element ${b \in G}$ such that ${ab = ba = e}$

**Question 1.1.4** Find/build an example of a group.
Set of all integers under addition.

**Question 1.1.5** Are the following groups? Are they abelian?
1. The set of rational numbers under ordinary addition.
Yes
2. The set of integers under multiplication
No
3. The set of real numbers under multiplication.
No
Inverse of ${0}$  doesn't exist.
4. The set ${\{1,2,...,n-1\}}$ under multiplication ${\mod n}$.
No

**Theorem 1.1.11** (Unique Identity). In a group ${G}$, there is only one identity element.
**Theorem 1.1.12** (Cancellation Laws) in a group ${G}$, the right and left cancelation laws hold; that is ${ba = ca}$ implies ${b = c}$, and ${ab = ac}$ implies ${b = c}$
**Theorem 1.1.13** (Unique Inverse). For each element ${a}$ in a group ${G}$, there is a unique element ${b \in G}$ such that ${ab = ba = e}$
**Theorem 1.1.14** (Socks-shoes property). For group elements ${(ab)^{-1} = b^{-1}a^{-1}}$