---
tags: MATH_320 Elementary_Modern_Algebra Groups Mathematics
---

**Multiplication Tables**
Consider
${(\mathbb{Z}_5^*, \;\cdot\;) = U(5)}$
Integer ${1}$ to ${4}$ with multiplication ${\mod 5}$ as the operation.

| *   | 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1   | 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   |
| 2   | 2   | 4   | 1   | 3   |
| 3   | 3   | 1   | 4   | 2   |
| 4   | 4   | 3   | 2   | 1   |

### 1.1.2 Subgroups
**Definition 1.1.16.** (Order of a group). The number of elements of a group is called its *order*. we will use ${|G|}$ to denote the order of ${G}$.

**Definition 1.1.17.** (Order of an element). The *order* of an element ${g}$ in a group ${G}$ is the smallest positive integer ${n}$ such that ${g_n = e}$. If no such integer exists, we say that ${g}$ has *infinite order*. The order of an element is denoted ${|g|}$.

**Definition 1.1.19.** (Subgroup). If a set ${H}$ of a group ${G}$ is itself a group under the operation ${G}$, we say that ${H}$ is a *subgroup* of ${G}$. The notation ${\le}$ (${<}$) is used to denote a subgroup (proper subgroup)
The subgroup ${e}$ is called the *trivial subgroup*, any other subgroup is called *nontrivial*.
*Note:* A subgroup requires the same operation as the original group, so ${\mathbb{Z}_n}$ with the operation addition modulo ${n}$ is not a subgroup of ${\mathbb{Z}}$ with usual addition.

**Theorem 1.1.20.** (One-step subgroup test). Let ${G}$ be a group and ${H}$ be a nonempty subset of ${G}$. If ${ab^{-1}}$ is in ${H}$ whenever ${a}$ and ${b}$ are in ${H}$, then ${H}$ is a subgroup of ${G}$.

This is called the one-step subgroup test, however there are two things to check. First make sure that ${H}$ is nonempty, then check that ${ab^{-1}}$ is in ${H}$.

**Example 1.1.21.** Let ${G}$ be a commutative group under multiplication with identity ${e}$. Then ${H = \{x^2 | x \in G\}}$ is a subgroup of ${G}$.
To prove this, first note that ${H}$ is nonempty since ${e^2 = e}$. We want to show that ${a^2(b^2)^{-1} \in H}$
$${\begin{align} a^2(b^2)^{-1} &= aab^{-1}b^{-1} \\ &= (ab^{-1})^2 \end{align}}$$

**Theorem 1.1.22.** (Two-step subgroup test). Let ${G}$ be a group and let ${H}$ be a nonempty subset of ${G}$. If ${ab}$ is in ${H}$ whenever ${a}$ and ${b}$ are in ${H}$, and ${a^{-1}}$ is in ${H}$ whenever ${a}$ is in ${H}$, then ${H}$ is a subgroup of ${G}$

**Theorem 1.1.23** (Finite subgroup test). Let ${H}$ be a nonempty finite subset of a group ${G}$. If ${H}$ is closed under the operation of ${G}$, then ${H}$ is a subgroup of ${G}$

**Definition 1.1.24** (Center of a group). The *center*, ${Z(G)}$, of a group ${G}$ is the subset of elements in ${G}$ that commute with every element of ${G}$. That is
$${Z(G) = \{a\in G\,|\,ax=xa\text{ for all }x \in G\}}$$

**Theorem 1.1.27.** The center of a group ${G}$ is a subgroup of ${G}$

**Definition 1.1.28.** (Centralizer of ${G}$). Let ${a}$ be a fixed element of a group ${G}$. The *centralizer* of ${a}$ in ${G}$, ${C(a)}$, is the set of all elements that commute with ${a}$. That is
$${C(a) = \{g \in G \,|\, ag = ga\}}$$

**Theorem 1.1.29.** For each ${a}$ in a group ${G}$, the centralizer of ${a}$ is a subgroup of ${G}$

### 1.1.3 Exercises
1. In the group ${\mathbb{Z}_{12}}$ (integers from ${0}$ to ${11}$ under addition modulo 12), find ${|a|}$, ${|b|}$, and ${|a+b|}$ for each of the following.

a) ${a = 6, b=2}$
${2, 6, 3}$
b) ${a = 3, b= 8}$
${4,3, 12}$
c) ${a = 5, b = 4}$
${12,3, 4}$
Does there seem to be any relationship between ${|a|}$, ${|b|}$, and ${|a+b|?}$
No

2. If ${a}$, ${b}$, and ${c}$ are group elements and ${|a| = 6}$ and ${|b| = 7}$, then express ${(a^4c^{-2}b^{4})^{-1}}$ without using negative exponents.

${b^{-4} c^{2} a^{-4} = b^3c^{2}a^2}$

3. Prove in any group, an element and its inverse have the same order.

${a^n b = e}$
${b = (a^{-1})^n}$
Therefore, inverse's order is ${n}$.

4. For any group elements ${a}$ and ${b}$, prove that ${|ab| = |ba|}$

Let ${|ab| = n}$ and ${|ba| = m}$.
This means ${(ab)^n = e}$ and ${(ba)^m = e}$.
We can rewrite the first statement, ${b(ab)^{n-1}}$

5. Prove that a group with two elements of order ${2}$ that commute must have  
a subgroup of order ${4}$.

