### **Prerequisites for PostScript**

*Mathematical Notations*
- Infix: $1 + 2$
- Postfix: $1\;2\;+$
- Prefix $+\;1\;2$

>Postscript uses *postfix*

### **Symbol Tables**

All language use some `dictionary` (key-value pair)

We can use the term *symbol tables* which maintains variable-value associations.

They are a data structure that holds associations between variable names (symbols) and their corresponding values, types, or memory locations.

Facilitates variable lookups during program execution.

Tracks scope (e.g. global, local) and lifetime

### **Roles of Symbol Tables**

- *Compilation:* Tracks identifiers for quick lookup, type-checking, and error detection.
- *Runtime*: Manages scopes and binding

___

# **PostScript**

*History*:
- Developed by Adobe Systems in $1982$
- Created by John Warnock and Charles Geschke
- Used for page description and document layout

### **Features of Postscript**

Uses a *stack* data structure as the source of operation.
Executed directly by an *interpreter*, like *Ghostscript*

- Explicit control over symbol tables (dict)
- Dynamic scopes

### **Postscript Constants**

1. *Numbers*:
	- Integer and floating-point values
2. *Strings*:
	- Defined using parentheses.
	- Example: `(Hello, World!)`
3. *Boolean*
4. *Arrays*
	- Defined using square brackets, can hold multiple values of any time
5. *Name Constants*
	- Names for variables or functions prefixed with `/`
	- Example: `/myVar`
6. *Code Blocks*
	- Represented by curly braces.

### **Postscript Execution**
When the user enters code:
- If it's a constant, add it to the stack
- If it's not a constant, treat it as an identifier
	- Check dictionaries to find what the identifier points to
	- If it's a value, add value to the stack
	- If function, check the *arity* of the function (say its $n$)
	- See if the stack has enough elements, take the top $n$ elements, and execute the function, add result back to stack

### **Procedures in Postscript**

Store code blocks in the dictionary, and call it later!